Apps and services with .net 10 - third edition=Mark J;Note=Erxin

# Introducing 
- ASP.NET Core provides multiple technologies for building websites:

ASP.NET Core Razor Pages can dynamically generate HTML for simple websites.
ASP.NET Core MVC is an implementation of the Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern, which is popular for developing complex websites.
Razor class libraries provide a way to package reusable functionality for ASP.NET Core projects including user interface components.
Blazor lets you build user interface components using C# and .NET and then run them in a web browser or embedded web component instead of a JavaScript-based UI framework like Angular, React, and Vue.

- services are sometimes described based on their complexity:

Service: All functionality needed by a client app in one monolithic service.
Microservice: Multiple services that each focus on a smaller set of functionalities. The guiding principle for what the boundary of functionality should be for a microservice is that each microservice should own its own data. Only that microservice should read/write that data. If you have a data store that multiple services access, then they are not microservices.
Nanoservice: A single function provided as a service. Unlike services and microservices that are hosted 24/7/365, nanoservices are often inactive until called upon to reduce resources and costs. For this reason, they are also known as serverless services.

- basic web APIs, including:

gRPC: For building highly efficient and performant microservices with support for almost any platform.
SignalR: For implementing real-time communications between components.
GraphQL: For letting the client control what data is retrieved across multiple data sources. Although GraphQL can use HTTP, it does not have to, and it does not follow the web design principles defined by Roy Field in his dissertation about REST APIs.
Azure Functions: For hosting serverless nanoservices in the cloud. This is an online-only section.
OData: For easily wrapping EF Core and other data models as a web service. This is covered in the book, Real-World Web Development with .NET 10

- wcf 

CoreWCF. Be aware that it can never be a full port since parts of WCF are Windows-specific.
 
client application can make remote procedure calls (RPCs) to a server application. Instead of using a port of WCF to do this, we should use an alternative RPC technology like gRPC

- choices for services 

feature,                web api,        odata,       GraphQL,       gRPC,       SignalR        
request partial data,    n,              y,              y,          n,          n,
mini http version,      1.1,            1.1,            1.1,        2.0,        1.1
browser support,        y,              y,              y,          n,          y,
data format,            xml/json,       xml/json,       graphQL,    binary,     varies,
document,           openAPI,            openAPI,        n,          n,          n,
caching,                easy,           easy,           hard,       hard,       hard,

- recommands 

Public service

HTTP/1.1-based services are best for services that need to be publicly accessible

Public data service OData and GraphQL are both good choices for exposing complex hierarchical datasets

Service-to-service gRPC is designed for low-latency and high-throughput communication. 

Point-to-point real-time communication gRPC has excellent support for bidirectional streaming. gRPC services can push messages in real time

Broadcast real-time communication SignalR has great support for broadcasting real-time

Polyglot environment gRPC tooling supports all popular development language

Network-bandwidth-constrained environment gRPC messages are serialized with Protobuf, a lightweight message format.

Serverless nanoservice Azure Functions do not need to be hosted 24/7 so they are a good choice for nanoservices that usually do not need to be running constantly. Amazon Web Services (AWS) Lambdas are an alternative.

- windows only apps 
Windows Forms, 2002
Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), 2006
Windows Store, 2012
Universal Windows Platform (UWP), 2015
Windows App SDK (formerly WinUI 3 and Project Reunion), 2021

- cross platform 

APIs, as shown in the following list:

iOS: Objective-C or Swift and UIkit
Android: Java or Kotlin and Android API
macOS: Objective-C or Swift and AppKit or Catalyst
Windows: C, C++, or many other languages and Win32 API or Windows App SDK

.NET MAUI
Cross-platform mobile and desktop apps can be built once for the .NET Multi-platform App UI (MAUI) platform

 You can read more about it at the following link: https://github.com/dotnet/Comet.
 
Uno platform
Uno is “the first C# & XAML, free and open-source platform for creating true single-source, multi-platform applications,” as stated on its own website at the following link: https://platform.uno/.

Avalonia “is a cross-platform UI framework for .NET. It creates pixel-perfect, native apps” and “is supported on all major platforms.” Avalonia “is the trusted UI framework for complex apps,” as stated on its official website home page at the following link: https://avaloniaui.net/.

    + comments 
    
.NET MAUI is best for building cross-platform mobile apps because it supports the two major platforms: Apple iOS and Google Android

Avalonia is best for building cross-platform desktop apps because it supports more OSes than .NET MAUI including Linux. 

Blazor is best for building cross-platform web apps because it uses C# and .NET and supports both server-side components and WebAssembly for standalone web

- most popular relational databases are:

Microsoft SQL Server: A proprietary RDBMS developed by Microsoft, widely used in enterprise environments and applications running on Windows and Azure.
MySQL: An open-source RDBMS owned by Oracle, commonly used in web applications, startups, and cloud-based environments.
PostgreSQL: A powerful, open-source RDBMS known for its advanced features, extensibility, and compliance with SQL standards.

SQL Server is best for a Microsoft ecosystem and if you need enterprise-grade security and BI features.
MySQL is best for web apps and lightweight simple applications.
PostgreSQL is best for advanced SQL compliance and extensibility and if you want a completely free, feature-rich database.

- .NET 10 supports the following platforms for deployment:

Windows: Windows 10 version 1607 or later, Windows 11 version 22000 or later, Windows Server 2012 R2 SP1 or later, and Nano Server version 2019 or later.
Linux: Alpine Linux 3.22, Azure Linux 3.0, CentOS Stream 9 or 10, Debian 12 or 13, Fedora 42, openSUSE Leap 15.6, RHEL 9 or 10, SUSE Enterprise Linux 15.6, and Ubuntu 22.04, 24.04, or 25.04.
Android: API 21 or later is the minimum SDK target. Versions 12, 12.1, 13, 14, and 15.
iOS and iPadOS: 18. iOS 12.2 is used as the minimum SDK target.
Mac: macOS 14 or 15.

- Central Package Management (CPM) is a feature that simplifies the management of NuGet package versions across multiple projects 

regularly review and update the package versions in the Directory.Packages.props file to ensure that you are using the latest stable releases with important bug fixes and performance improvements.

package source (https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json) and a custom package source configured: