
Unix/Linux OS/Step by step to build a UNIX Server for Hosting

 
Advertisement
 
Expert: mkitwrk - 4/30/2009

Question
Hi mkitwrk,
 I just have an idea to build my own web hosting server using UNIX, but I just don't know how to start it.. Please guide me about how to build that server. if you have some ebooks or links or videos or anything else that could help me figure it out, would like to share it with me (maybe via mail or this forum)? 
Thanks for your attention. I looking forward to hearing from you. 

Answer
Many decisions...
 
If you don't want to delve into learning how to configure everything, then you should buy a pre-configured web server...
 
If you want to be frugal with money, then you have to invest the time to learn how to set up linux and apache2 at the very least.
 If you want to have MySQL and PHP5 available, then those both have an impact on how you configure apache2.
 And you have to choose a distro... (Debian, RedHat, Ubuntu, Fedora...)
 
Assuming you want to learn the process and get by on a shoestring, then choose a free distro that provides updates without a subscription service. I choose the Debian Stable Release (currently called Lenny) for that since many of the others focus on desktop issues.
 
You can use bittorrent to download the 1st CD or DVD of Debian Lenny and use it to boot from to create the initial base system.
 http://www.debian.org/CD/torrent-cd/
 
Then after getting the base system installed, learn how to get your web server installed, up and running. Then put your pages in place and test it...
 
Then work on getting other features incorporated like PHP and MySQL.
 
Learn to use the "man" pages. -- In *nix, if you think of a name that describes what you want to do, the command available is probably named something witty that matches its function. -- Like "diff" or "split"... To see how to use those commands, you would, at the system prompt, type "man diff" and it will show you how to use it...
 
Or "man apache2" would lead you through the basic apache options and give you pointers on where else to look...
 
So the basic startup would be:
 1) pick a distro (use the web to research)
 2) download and burn the initial CD/DVD
 3) boot from CD/DVD and commit a complete system to the new OS
 4) install the base system without any extras (accept all the defaults)
 5) get the system functionally accessing the internet (ifconfig, /etc/resolv.conf, etc.)
 6) figure how to configure the distro's package management system and comment out the CD/DVD entry and point only to internet based sources
 7) use the package manager to install apache2
 8) use the software updating mechanism to ensure all your packages are up-to-date
 9) reboot and make sure the httpd daemon is running
 10) place your html pages in SystemRoot (generally /var/www) and http to the machine...
 
Then you can start adding in things like PHP and MySQL...
 Then you can fine-tune the web services by divvying up the resources (RAM/disk/concurrent connections/caching)
 

Hope that helps!
 Larry 
