Rubee.com; Note = eshang

:Rubee
Rubee, an alternative to RFID, it works on steel and in water
>features
RuBee is the only wireless technology that is secure, and has no Tempest, Target or Eavesdropping risk;
RuBee is the only wireless technology that is safe near and on explosives with a zero foot (0') Safe Separation Distance (SSD);
RuBee is the only wireless technology that provides 100% readability in harsh environments, not blocked by steel or liquids.
>standard
IEEE 1902.1
>battery life
typical battery life of 5-15 years
>penetrability
range of a few inches to over 50 feet, work on steel and in liquids
>network
RuBee network is like a mini-web site with a programmable address and subnet address
>range
control range from a few inches to over 50 feet and therefore has no tempest
>health
below OSHA human safety limits
untoward effects on pacemakers or ICDs
>safe distance
a zero Safe Separation Distance (SSD) for nuclear weapons
>EMC, EMI
100% read rates in harsh environments where RF systems do not work

:Arm video
The rubee tag can wrap with steel
Count the shot
test underwater, steel, steel breafcase

:Integrated rubee asset visibility networks
Visible designs and sells IEEE 1902.1, RuBee Tags, RuBee Routers, Dot-Tag Servers (Middleware Visibility Engine) and industry specific web enabled applications (20/20 Visibility Applications). Visible designs RuBee Chips and has several single chip solutions (iDot, xDot, and sDot), RuBee modems that can be used to create full Systems On a Chip (SOC) tags using the Seiko Epson MCU product line.

:Five year identification
>three phase
1.commercial technologies
2.configuration within low risk/minimal moderate security production
3.High risk/high security operating areas

:RuBee Three-Layer Security 
both real-time wireless automated visibility and the highest possible security of any Mission Critical Asset -- Mission Critical Assets (MCA) 
1.Real-Time Physical Storage Inventory
2.Issuance Check Out/In
3.Exit/Entry Detection

:Sidewinder
>features
hvae four multiplexed antenna ports that may be loops or ferrite rods
32 Mbytes of static memory
a Linux operating systems
a Virtual Private Network (VPN) manager
RJ45 CAT5e cable, obtains a local IP address via DCHP, and connects to a Dot-Tag server (see below) via the VPN
?Applications may be quickly created using Dot-Tag and viewed over the Web or locally. Dot-Tag is the Visibility Engine and also manages DOD 5015.2 and 21CFR Part11 audit logs automatically, and may be programmed to create Sarbanes-Oxley audit logs. The Dot-Tag server can also host 20/20 Visibility Applications.
100's to 1,000's of RuBee tags maybe placed within a RuBee network

:Auto-ID technologies (RFID, ZigBee, WiFi, UWB, Bluetooth)
UWB, Ultra-wideband (also known as UWB, ultra-wide band and ultraband) is a radio technology pioneered by Robert A. Scholtz and others which may be used at a very low energy level for short-range, high-bandwidth communications using a large portion of the radio spectrum
ZigBee, is a specification for a suite of high level communication protocols using small, low-power digital radios based on an IEEE 802 standard for personal area networks. 

:Products
>Armory 20/20, weapons visibility network, integrated
>Allegr 20/20, is a ruBee enable weapons shot chouting tag
>Server 20.20, a rubee visibility network taht provide real-time inventory of servers
>Asset 20/20, integrated rubee visibility network base on IEEE 1902.1 wireless systems, rubee portal platform

:Rubee hardware
>pRap, mobile data collection, ruggedized iTouch/iPhone in a drop harden industrial case. discover, ping, read and write to any RuBee tag. Standard pRaps have a range of about 1.5 feet with range options from 7-8 feet and special designed
>Rubee gRap, is a ruggedized iPad in a drop harden industrial case. Check in/out Issuance station. with optional 2D barcode reader and CAC card reader. gRaps may have WiFi and Bluetooth removed for use in secure areas, and all gRaps have a high speed TCP/IP RJ45 connection with optional POE
>Rubee Portal Platform, plug-n-play multi-channel portal manager. an exit or entry is capable of both asset and people detection with high sensitivity. Unlike RF systems, RuBee goes through people and steel
>Smart racks and shelves, turn a steel shelf or rack into an antenna and read RuBee enabled assets on the shelf
>Dot tag server, is the Visibility Engine that ties all components together into a network. Dot-Tag Oracle uses Oracle 11G database
>has several single chip solutions (iDot, xDot, and sDot), uBee modems that can be used to create full Systems On a Chip (SOC) tags 
>Tag features
Tags may have sensors for temperature, motion, light humidity, and other analytes. Tags may also have optional buttons, LEDs and small LCD displays.

:Physics of Rubee
James Clerk Maxwell in 1856, known as Maxwell’s equations
Typical RuBee noise sources are LCD projectors, plasma panel displays, switching power supplies, large transformers and lighting storms. However, RuBee demos and RuBee systems work in the same room with all of these noise sources, because the signal drop off so quickly. 
>Noise effect
lightening storm does not compromise RuBee data communication in any serious way, it just slows RuBee down by a few packets. 
>Physics 
The impedance or resistance of free space is 377 ohms
 RuBee has a wavelength of 7,511 feet
 RuBee uses very low frequency (131 Khz) 
 E=h*v

:Keywords
Inc, incorporated
RFID, radio frequency identification devices
EMI, Electro-Magnetic Interference
EMC, Electro Magnetic Compatibility
SSD, Safe Separation Distance (SSD)
Dot-Tag Servers (Middleware Visibility Engine)
Systems On a Chip (SOC) 
Radio Frequency (RF)
CAAC (Cameras, Alarms, Access Control) 
Return On Investment (ROI)
Pantex (the most secure facility within the US where all nuclear weapons are assembled and disassembled) 
RuBee Portal Platform (RP2)
LF, 
HF, 
UHF, 
RFID, 
barcode
Change In Process (CIP)
US Department of Energy (DoE)

:Question
RuBee is an on-demand packet based protocol?
They show that the RuBee signal drops off 1/R to the 3rd power.